Hey guys, welcome back.
We're going to talk a little bit about Instagram content, what
users expect, and in general what works on this platform.
Now, every platform's different and it caters to different tastes.
Facebook is anything that's casual and social.
Twitter is good for anything that's concise and catchy.
Snapchat is pure crap and mostly only appeals 11-year olds.
But Instagram is the king of visual and of presentation.
Instagram started as a photo sharing site and still
largely is. The first thing that took off from the
site actually was just landscapes
taken from photographers.
Landscapes are pretty, and with the right image editing,
pretty drool-worthy. There are some landscapes
I look at and I want to eat it. So it makes sense that
anything that's visually compelling is going to
be a natural fit for Instagram.
So the first question I think business owners need
to ask themselves is, "Is what I'm doing inherently
visual, and if not, can it be made visual?"
If you make a software that, I don't know, helps
you optimize code, can you make that visual?
No, not really.
I honestly can't think of how you
would consistently make that visual.
But if you're running, let's say, a coding school, on
the other hand, then yeah, that is visual, right?
You can show your space, you can show your students,
show your events, I don't know, give acceptance tips, etc.
etc. People doing things is something
that generally works on Instagram.
Now, the next thing I want to point out is brevity.
Facebook doesn't have a limit on the length of their videos.
You can post the whole three videos of the
extended Lord Of The Rings if you want to.
On Twitter, you can and do often link out to blogs.
Instagram is not one of these things. People typically
interact with the site in order to see pretty things,
laugh, and maybe find something that's interesting or to keep
in touch with friends and brands that they might care about.
So what that means is that brevity works really well
on Instagram. If you can't explain what your service
or product is in a sentence, then
Instagram could be difficult for you.
Your best bet here would be to focus on something
that's adjacently related to your product.
Let's say you're a new medical device that's basically
a better mousetrap for... insert into the blank.
Now, sometimes this can be hard to explain, so maybe
you make an account that's themed around the disease
or ailment that your device treats, and
then you fill it with stories and tips.
You can then curate that audience and
then drive that audience to your business.
Of course it is possible that you could make it for your
medical device company, you know, for God's sake,
Medtronic has 30,000 followers, and Novo Nordisk,
I've never heard of them, but they have 77,000.
How did they do it?
Well, for the most part, they just focus on their employees,
and then every now and then they'll give like
a feature of their product.
So, in general, we need some type of visual interest
and themes that we can express succinctly.
If you're ever stuck for what to post,
there really are a lot of categories, and in the resources
we've attached a decently exhaustive list that
you can go back to in the event that you forget.
Here are some common posting themes though that you'll
see across Instagram that have all demonstrated traction.
We have product photos, short video demos of a product
even, we have customer stories or customer highlights,
we have the same thing, but for employees, you can
highlight an employee, tell their story, or just take
photos of them doing their job in a non-creepy way.
We have motivational or inspirational quotes.
There are entire accounts built off just motivational quotes,
usually it's like the entrepreneurship niche,
or things like weightlifting, or just motivation.
It's possibly the laziest way to make a successful
Instagram account, so don't discount it.
I mean, it still works.
Educational content works really well as well.
Tips and tricks for whatever your theme or niche is,
or how to do something in 60 seconds, since a video
limit is 60 seconds.
There are accounts that are popular just because
they post interesting facts or life hacks.
Now, another style that works across all types of media
on Instagram is what we call BTS or behind the scenes.
If you're either a brand or a person, well, then virtually
everyone out there has some interest in knowing
what your production looks like or
what you do on a day to day basis.
What's happening behind the camera or the computer
screen that's producing these posts? For whatever reason,
we're just fascinated by these things.
This doesn't work as a themed account, but it works
really well for both businesses and personal accounts.
Another big type you'll see is UGC or user generated content.
You do this by asking your followers or any customers
you have honestly to do something or send in a
photo. Photos, for whatever reason, engage at higher rates
with this type of stuff, although it can be hard to
maintain things like production quality if you ask
some random guy to do it for you.
Some of my favorite posts that actually fit into this category
are what you call ask the audience, where the entire
point of the post is actually just to
ask your followers a question.
So, a music company might ask, "What are you listening
to right now?" or a tech company might say, "iOS
or Android? Fight in the comments" and it's guaranteed
to get responses, and it's brain dead easy to pull off.
Now, some others you'll see across the
platform are promotions and giveaways.
Usually, you give something away in return for
a comment, a share, or answering a question.
Another theme you might see from day one
is humor too, funny posts work really well,
assuming they fit your brand and are actually funny.
So those are some really common themes that you can
dip out of whenever you need something to post.
So let's recap it.
Instagram is the king of visual, and while it's
not as short attention span as Twitter, users
still do prefer to get things quickly and then move on.
Make sure your account matches these two requirements.
Sometimes it can be hard to think of a visual aspect
that you can take advantage of, but trust me, there
are companies that are in way worse
positions than you that pulled this off.
Tylenol has an Instagram account.
I'm not even making this up.
Once you get yourself lined up and know what is
the general theme that you're going for, or going to
be posting on, or some visual pattern
you're going to be aiming for,
then you just need to get into the nitty gritty and
start thinking about the actual what of your post.
There is an enormous amount of precedent, and you
could post 10 times a day for 100 years without running
out of ideas that have already been done.
Show your product.
Put up a quote.
Teach them something.
Show something from behind the scenes,
ask your users a question.
Throw a contest.
Tons of stuff that you can do.
We'll explore these common types of posts later on in the
course. Like always, if you have questions, post in the Slack.
Otherwise, see you next lecture.